##Lab 1:

Provide the answers to the following questions in a file called Lab1-answers.txt


##Q1: What is the difference between EBS and S3?


Amazon S3 and Amazon EBS are different types of storage designed by Amazon Web Services. 
Amazon S3 represents an object storage for data that deals with user files like Google Docs 
does it (flat file structure). While Amazon EBS is an example of a block level storage similar 
to your desktop’s drive or virtual disk in virtualized environments. Both of them have pros and
cons as they are crafted for different purposes and requirements. This article explains when to 
use Amazon S3 or Amazon EBS.

What is Amazon S3?

Amazon S3 stores data as objects in a flat environment (without a hierarchy). Each object (file) 
in the storage contains a header with associated sequence of bytes from 0 byte to 5 TB. Objects
in Amazon S3 are associated with a unique identifier (key), so access to them can be obtained 
through web requests from anywhere. For example, any authorized node in your own datacenter or 
external user can get access to any object in your Amazon S3 bucket.

Amazon S3 also allows to host static website content. You can get access to it either from your 
Amazon S3 bucket or through content delivery network AWS CloudFront.

As compared to Amazon EBS, the process of requesting an object in Amazon S3 is slower, 
but Amazon S3 is a highly scalable storage service with 99,999999999% data durability. 
It means that you have very little chances to lose your data or reach maximum storage capacity. 
Thus, it’s better to use it to store and deliver objects that don’t require a lot of read/write 
operations, for example, backups. Third-party solutions like CloudBerry Backup helps to automate 
data backup and recovery using Amazon S3.

What is Amazon EBS?

Amazon EBS stores data as blocks of the same size and organizes them through the hierarchy similar 
to a traditional file system. EBS is not a standalone storage service like Amazon S3 so you can use 
it only in combination with Amazon EC2, a cloud computing service by AWS.

Amazon EBS is designed to store data in volumes of a provisioned size attached to an Amazon EC2 instance, 
similar to a local disk drive on your physical server. Amazon EBS only allows to attach the volume to 
another EC2 instance or keep it in a standby mode. It’s important as once you configure the volume in 
Amazon EBS, it can’t be easily scaled. If you need more storage space, you will need to buy and configure 
a new volume of a bigger size.

There are three types of volumes in Amazon EBS. To understand the difference, you need to know what IOPS 
is.  “IOPS” stands for input/output operations per second or, put it simply, the maximum amount of 
read/write operations you are able to perform per second. To choose the right Amazon EBS volume type you
need to know IOPS requirements for your application.

reference: https://www.cloudberrylab.com/blog/amazon-s3-vs-amazon-ebs/



Q2: When would you consider a cloud infrastructure for your data science tasks?








Q3: What is the difference between spot instances and reserved instances?

EC2 spot instances allow you to bid for capacity. As supply and demand for spot instances continuously set their cost, 
your instance is only lauched when your bid price exceeds the market value of the spot instance. It will continue to 
run until you stop it or the spot price equals or exceeds the bid price, which ever comes first. These instances are 
help reduce cost when task are not time sensitive and can withstand interruption. 

If your application is not tolerant to interruption, Reserved instances are often a better alternative. Unlike on-demand 
instances, reserve instances allow users to make capacity reservations when utilization is predictable.

https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/spot/
https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/pricing/reserved-instances/

Q4: List the names of four software packages installed on the UCB AMI

-
-
-
-



